- I learned how to create a repository on github.
- I learned how to push my changes to my github repository and also how to clone my repository.
- CodePen is a sandbox that you will be using. It renders your code immediately in the preview window. 
- Technology stack is a collection of technologies that you use to create or deliver your web application. The top one is the web framework.
- React for the web framework, talking to Caddy as the web server hosted on AWS, running web services with Node.js, and MongoDB as the database hosted on MongoDB Atlas.

- EC2 instances:
    - AMI in this case would be used as the base for the server.
    - make sure to use chmod to change the permissions on the file
-Route 53:
    - used to handle everything DNS related.
    - needed to buy domain, host my DNS servers and create DNS records
    - hosted zones: this is where you create DNS records associated with my domain name.
-If your domain stopped working, make sure you verify your email from the email sent to you.
- Create a wildcard record. this means that any subdomain can match this record
- Once you encrypt your website, the IPV4 address is not available anymore
- HTTPS is HTTP with a negotiated secure connection that happens before any data is exchanged
- Web certificates are generated by a trusted 3rd party using public/private key encryption. Caddy works as a gateway to our different services and to host static web application files. 
- Learned how to deploy to production using a .sh file.

- CSS:
  -    How to write CSS code to make a website responsive to window sizing
  -    Learned how to use Bootstrap as a CSS framework.
  -    Learned how to debug CSS code using VSCode live server extension.
    
- JavaScript:
  -    Rest syntax is when you use a parameter that contains the rest of the parameters. To turn the last parameter of any function into a rest parameter, you prefix it with three periods.
  -    Spread does the opposite of rest. It takes an object that is iterableand expands it into a function's parameters.
  -    Exceptions:you use the try catch and throw syntax. An exception can be triggered whenever your code generates an exception using the throw keyword, or whenever an exception is generated by the Javascript runtime. To catch a thrown exception, you wrap a code block with the try keyword and follow the try block with a catch block.
  -    Fallback pattern is commonly implemented using exception handling. You put the normal feature path in a try block and then provide a fallback implementation in the catch block.
  -    Destructuring is the process of pulling individual items out of an existing one, or removing structure.
  -    Browser's localstorage API provides the ability to persistently store and retrieve data on a user's browser across user sessions and HTML page renderings.
  -    local storage is also used as a cache for when data cannot be obtained from the server.
  -    A local storage value must be of type string, number or boolean. if you want to store a Javascript object or array, then you must first convert it to a json string with json.stringify() or insertion, and parse it back to javascript with json.parse() when retrieved.
  -    Javascript executes as a single threaded application. This means that there is only ever one piece of code executed at the same time. However, the fact that it does not execute concurrently does not mean that it does not execute in parallel.
  -    You can asynchronously execute code with the use of a promise. Because the execution is asynchronous, the promise object can be in one of three states at any given point in time.
  -    You have pending, fulfilled, and rejected. 

- HTTP:
- When a web client (e.g. a web browser) and a web server talk they exchange HTTP requests and responses. The browser will make an HTTP request and the server will generate an HTTP response.
- Get the requested resource. This can represent a request to get a single resource or a resource representing a list of resources.
- POST: Create a new resource. The body of the request contains the resource. The response should include a unique ID of the newly created resource.
- PUT: Update a resource. Either the URL path, HTTP header, or body must contain the unique ID of the resource being updated. The body of the request should contain the updated resource. The body of the response may contain the resulting updated resource.
- Delete a resource. Either the URL path or HTTP header must contain the unique ID of the resource to delete.
- Get metadata about a resource. Usually only HTTP headers are returned. The resource itself is not returned.
- One common method for tracking state is the cookie. Cookies are generated by a server and passed to the client as an HTTP header.

-Express:
-    Routing requests for service endpoints
-    Manipulating HTTP requests with JSON body content
-    Generating HTTP responses
-    Using middleware to add functionality
-    npm install express to install express package. mediator and middleware. Middleware represents componentized pieces of functionality. 

-Data Services:
- using MongoDB to store data for the app
- when you do node index.js or database.js, it should return a json string
- npm install mongodb to download mongodb
- store credentials in dbConfig file
- import dbConfig.json into the index.js or database.js file
- You can create different collections in your database     

-Authorization Services:
- authenticate a user by asking for information such as an email address and password.
- 
